Q1: What is the difference between EBS and S3?

S3 and EBS are different types of storage designed by Amazon Web Services. Amazon S3 represents an object storage for data that deals with user files like Google Docs does it (flat file structure). While Amazon EBS is an example of a block level storage similar to your desktop’s drive or virtual disk in virtualized environments.

EBS is not a standalone storage service like Amazon S3 so you can use it only in combination with Amazon EC2

Q2: When would you consider a cloud infrastructure for your data science tasks?
- When data science tasks requires periodic but expensive training and test runs. In this case, it make sense to rent cloud infrastructure on demand.
- When we need to scale quickly up and down to deal with highly changing data volume and performance requirement, using cloud is much faster to achieve this.
- When cloud infrastructure offer services which make it easy and more economically to process and compute large volume data than on premise infrastructure, for example Amazon S3 offers cheap storage service, EMR offers quick setup of different hadoop environments, Redshift offer powerful but affordable dataware housing. 


Q3: What is the difference between spot instances and reserved instances?

A Reserved Instance is a reservation of resources and capacity, for either one or three years, for a particular Availability Zone within a region. When you purchase a reservation, you commit to paying for all of the hours of the 1- or 3-year term; in exchange, the hourly rate is lowered significantly.

On the other hand, spot instances are spare unused Amazon EC2 instances that you can bid for. Once your bid exceeds the current spot price (which fluctuates in real time based on demand-and-supply) the instance is launched. The instance can go away anytime the spot price becomes greater than your bid price. 


Advantage you get over reserved is they are cost effective. Downside is, they can be interrupted anytime. Therefore, these are more suitable for 1. flexible workloads that can be run at any point in time when you have enough computing capacity, 2. tasks that can use some extra computing capacity to enhance the performance, 3. optional nice to have tasks.

Q4: List the names of four software packages installed on the UCB AMI

1. hadoop-2.6.0
2. postgresql
3. MAKEDEV
4. Centos
